---
layout: post
title: R2-D2
categories:
    - fun
tags:
    - paper
    - project
---

There's a [really neat site](https://www7a.biglobe.ne.jp/~sf-papercraft) (in Japanese, use [Google translator](http://translate.google.ca/translate?js=n&amp;prev=_t&amp;hl=en&amp;ie=UTF-8&amp;layout=2&amp;eotf=1&amp;sl=ja&amp;tl=en&amp;u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww7a.biglobe.ne.jp%2F%7Esf-papercraft%2F) for giggles) that has paper models available for download.

You pick the model you want, print the design, cut out and glue together. Here's a R2-D2 I've been working on for nearly a year now. (I do a bit in the evenings then forget about for a while, then pick it up again.)

<video width="640" height="360" controls>
  <source src="/assets/posts/2011-07-31-R2-D2/r2d2_5996042945.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

What's neat about this is the head rotates and the feet move so you can position it. A word of warning though, some parts of the model are a wee bit tricky to put together. Also the instructions are just diagrams annotated in Japanese so study them carefully.

Here's a list of things I recommend to assemble complex paper models like this

* Sharp knife. A blunt one just tears, which is messy.
* Metal ruler. You think you can cut a straight line by hand? Bet you can't. Also very handy for folding.
* Cutting board. Coffee tables are not recommended unless you live alone.
* Glue. Any paper glue will do, in fact that cheap white stuff you used as a kid is perfect.
* Tweezers. I use these to hold two bits of paper together until the glue dries.
* Nail scissors. Nice and small to cut out any curves.
* Patience.

There are loads of models on the site, now I've done this one I should look for another one to do. They're perfect for doing in front of the tele.